rpisec-java/rpisec-oauth/README.adoc, before:

Spring Boot application
=======================
Thomas Herzog <herzog.thomas81@gmail.com>

This document describes the usage of this application and how to set it up in an development and productive environment.

# Description
The spring boot application provides the user management for the __rpisec__ applications. It handles the
firebase logins, stores the client devices __(client_id, client_secret)__ and registers the user client devices
on the __rpisec-app__ application.

# Setup
This section deals with the setup of the spring boot application. +
The application supports two profiles __dev__ and __prod__ where the __productive__
environment is hosted with a docker infrastructure and the __development__ environment
works as a standalone application with no special setup necessary.

## Externalized configuration
The configuration has been split to a static part which is packaged into the application
and a dynamic part which is provided via the configuration file  __oauth-external-application.properties__. +
An template for the configuration file __oauth-external-application.properties__
can be found link:../../host/config/oauth-external-application.properties[here]. +

Firebase needs a configuration file which must be kep private.

## Development Environment __(profile dev)__
This section deals with the necessary setup for the development environment.

### VM Options
[options="header"]
|======================
|Option                    | Values      | Usage
|-Dplatform                |  dev, prod  | Activates either dev or prod configurations
|-Dspring.config.location  | file:<path_to_file>/<config_file_name>.properties | Includes the externalized configuration
|======================

### Externalized Configuration
The externalized configuration file can be named and located as intended and will be
defined via an VM option as mentioned in the former section.

### Firebase
The __oauth-external-application.properties__ file must contain the parameter __firebase.configFile__ which defines
the location and name of the firebase configuration file. +

## Productive Environment
This section deals with the necessary setup for the productive environment. +
The productive environment is hosted in a docker infrastructure which is defined
via a docker-compose.yml which can be found link:../../host/docker/docker-compose.yml[here]. +

The docker infrastructure requires the following environment variables which must be visible
to docker-compose and most of the variables are defined in the __.env__ file which can be found  link:../../host/docker/.env[here]. +

Mostly the volumes are defined int he __.env__ file which shall be located in the docker executing user's home.
[options="header"]
|==============================
| Variable             | Value                       | Usage                                                   | Location
| OAUTH_APP_VOLUME     | ~/docker-volumes/oauth/app  | mapped volume for the rpisec-oauth jars                 | .env
| OAUTH_CONF_VOLUME    | ~/docker-volumes/oauth/conf | mapped volume for the rpisec-oauth configuration        | .env
| OAUTH_LOG_VOLUME     | ~/docker-volumes/oauth/log  | mapped volume for the rpisec-oauth logs                 | .env
| OAUTH_DB_VOLUME      | ~/docker-volumes/oauth/db   | mapped volume for the rpisec-oauth database             | .env
| RPISEC_VERSION       | 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT              | the current version of the microservice infrastructure  | ~/.bashrc
|==============================

### Externalized Configuration
The externalized configuration file must be named __oauth-external-application.properties__
and must be located at the root of the mapped conf volume defined by the environment variable __OAUTH_CONF_VOLUME__.

### Firebase
The firebase configuration file must be named __firebase-account.json__ and must be located
at the root of the mapped conf volume defined by the environment variable __OAUTH_CONF_VOLUME__.

# REST-API
TODO

Commit message:

- Added -Dadmin.email vm option to rpisec-oauth doc

rpisec-java/rpisec-oauth/README.adoc, after:

Spring Boot application
=======================
Thomas Herzog <herzog.thomas81@gmail.com>

This document describes the usage of this application and how to set it up in an development and productive environment.

# Description
The spring boot application provides the user management for the __rpisec__ applications. It handles the
firebase logins, stores the client devices __(client_id, client_secret)__ and registers the user client devices
on the __rpisec-app__ application.

# Setup
This section deals with the setup of the spring boot application. +
The application supports two profiles __dev__ and __prod__ where the __productive__
environment is hosted with a docker infrastructure and the __development__ environment
works as a standalone application with no special setup necessary.

## Externalized configuration
The configuration has been split to a static part which is packaged into the application
and a dynamic part which is provided via the configuration file  __oauth-external-application.properties__. +
An template for the configuration file __oauth-external-application.properties__
can be found link:../../host/config/oauth-external-application.properties[here]. +

Firebase needs a configuration file which must be kep private.

## Development Environment __(profile dev)__
This section deals with the necessary setup for the development environment.

### VM Options
[options="header"]
|======================
|Option                    | Values      | Usage
|-Dplatform                |  dev, prod  | Activates either dev or prod configurations
|-Dspring.config.location  | file:<path_to_file>/<config_file_name>.properties | Includes the externalized configuration
|-Dadmin.email             | <ADMIN_EMAIL> | The email address of the default created administrator. If not present when the administrator is tried to be created during startup then the startup will fail 
|======================

### Externalized Configuration
The externalized configuration file can be named and located as intended and will be
defined via an VM option as mentioned in the former section.

### Firebase
The __oauth-external-application.properties__ file must contain the parameter __firebase.configFile__ which defines
the location and name of the firebase configuration file. +

## Productive Environment
This section deals with the necessary setup for the productive environment. +
The productive environment is hosted in a docker infrastructure which is defined
via a docker-compose.yml which can be found link:../../host/docker/docker-compose.yml[here]. +

The docker infrastructure requires the following environment variables which must be visible
to docker-compose and most of the variables are defined in the __.env__ file which can be found  link:../../host/docker/.env[here]. +

Mostly the volumes are defined int he __.env__ file which shall be located in the docker executing user's home.
[options="header"]
|==============================
| Variable             | Value                       | Usage                                                   | Location
| OAUTH_APP_VOLUME     | ~/docker-volumes/oauth/app  | mapped volume for the rpisec-oauth jars                 | .env
| OAUTH_CONF_VOLUME    | ~/docker-volumes/oauth/conf | mapped volume for the rpisec-oauth configuration        | .env
| OAUTH_LOG_VOLUME     | ~/docker-volumes/oauth/log  | mapped volume for the rpisec-oauth logs                 | .env
| OAUTH_DB_VOLUME      | ~/docker-volumes/oauth/db   | mapped volume for the rpisec-oauth database             | .env
| RPISEC_VERSION       | 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT              | the current version of the microservice infrastructure  | ~/.bashrc
|==============================

### Externalized Configuration
The externalized configuration file must be named __oauth-external-application.properties__
and must be located at the root of the mapped conf volume defined by the environment variable __OAUTH_CONF_VOLUME__.

### Firebase
The firebase configuration file must be named __firebase-account.json__ and must be located
at the root of the mapped conf volume defined by the environment variable __OAUTH_CONF_VOLUME__.

# REST-API
TODO
